---
id: 10148
title: 'Chris Kelly &#8211; Texas Mini Worlds – 10/28/16-10/30/16 – Houston, TX'
date: 2016-11-17T05:00:30+00:00
author: pwsadmin
layout: swccgpc
guid: http://www.starwarsccg.org/?p=10148
permalink: /chris-kelly-texas-mini-worlds-102816-103016-houston-tx/
bre_carousel_slogan:
  - ""
bre_carousel_external_link:
  - ""
bre_carousel_link:
  - ""
bre_add_to_home_carousel:
  - ""
bre_carousel_title:
  - ""
categories:
  - Tournament Reports
---
**Chris Kelly (Indiana Jones Jedi Knight)  
** 

**Texas Mini Worlds – 10/28/16-10/30/16 – Houston, TX  
** 

**Court Scum (Team Event)**

**Throne Room Mains / Court First Order (Main Event)  
** 

**Throne Room Mains / Court Scum (Main Event Top 8)**

**Throne Room Mains / That Thing&#8217;s Operational! (Consolation Event)**

**Virtual Set 4 Meta**

**Forum Link: http://www.starwarsccg.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=985&t=63492  
** 

This was sitting on my phone half-written, so I figured now would be as good a time as any to finish it. I apologize in advance if details are forgotten or props were inadvertently overlooked. In case you want to skip to the bottom first, I’ll just say I had a great time, all of the hosts were great, all of the new players were great and I think everyone a great time. Also, I don’t really have the time, effort or recall to add much humor into, so this might be a little dry and lacking a lot of the personal interactions that made it a good time.

So, come time for Euros, Scott made the awesome offer of paying for some airfare to travel to Euros and I was very seriously considering it, but just couldn’t pull the trigger to leave my kid behind while I went to Europe without him. But as a consolation, I could go to the Great State of Texas for a quick weekend to play some cards, so I was looking forward to it. Leading up to the event I’ll be honest – I kind of lost time for cards and couldn’t test as much as I hoped. This kind of narrowed my deck choices. I really wanted to play WYS Luke and TTO, but was also intrigued about this Court deck everyone was talking about from Euros. So I messaged Tom Kelly a bit and he was amazing enough to set some time aside and be my Yoda. So one Sunday I traveled down to his place (along with Steve Cellucci) and they were both amazing and helpful and taught me how to navigate both Step and the Court deck. So as I drove home I felt somewhat okay with these decks, but knew I’d have to practice with them. Well, as I got more and more in depth with the Step, I realized, I just wasn’t good enough to play Tom’s version. Tom’s version is obviously as work of art and optimized and no one can argue with its success. However, it takes a certain skill to play it (I mean, from the very beginning you have to make such an important decision that can literally lose you the game if you make the wrong one, and sometimes even if you make the right one at the time, it ends up being the wrong one. Then during the game with the Used Pile pulls you still have twice as many decisions to make – do you deploy a guy at a slightly less than optimal place just to trigger the Used Pile pulls? And once you get the Used Pile pull, which card do you grab?). So I decided that with a week-ish to go, I didn’t have enough time to learn a whole new deck AND get familiar with all of these decisions, so I went with a more traditional build of WYS. That was actually okay for me (and much simpler), but I had to put a lot of work into the DS so I couldn’t focus on the LS as much as I wanted. I planned to bring only 1 card box with me (able to hold 5 total decks plus a full shield set plus the cards I’m letting people borrow) because I wanted to pack light, so in the end I brought the TRM I used at Coruscant regionals and the WYS Luke for LS and the First Order Court, Court Scum and TTO for DS. The Scum deck I basically took the top 3 Court Scum decks from Worlds and found all of the common cards between all three, then separated out the final few slots and saw which decks overlapped and tried to figure out the reasons for the variances and mapped it all out. I had never done anything like that before, and I found it really helpful to try to optimize the deck for me and my playing style over those final card slots. I also did the same thing with the top 3 TTO decks and WHAP decks, laying them all out in a 3-colum Word document. Pretty useful. The TRM I was very familiar with. It’s probably one of the first decks I built in a long time without net-decking that performed well for me, and I’ve played it enough to be very happy with it. It starts Wokling, Like My Father Before Me and Insurrection combo. Not the most conventional TRM out there, but I love starting Ellis hate and a shield and activation puller and a way to check my deck each turn on table. The First Order Court is almost card for card Tom Kelly’ version except I think I added a Projective or a Stunning Leader in favor of a Barrier? Something minor like that, I can’t recall off hand.

I have to get up absurdly early on Friday for my flight and despite getting there at like 4 am, I still have to wait on line at security. And my bag gets pulled. They actually are ‘targeting’ my card box. I guess a bunch of deck boxes packed together appear to be explosives or something on the x-ray machine, so I wait patiently as the lady literally uses some device called the ionizer on all of my deck boxes individually, even taking them out to see they are cards. I get kind of worried they will see an Anakin and remove the slip to see I brought a friggin’ timer mine onto the plane, but fortunately no v-slips were dislodged (yet another advantage of double sleeving). I have a layover in Philadelphia and that gives me the chance to eat at Smashburger. So I do that. My layover isn’t that long though and soon enough I’m on the plane to Texas. When I land I call the hotel to get the shuttle and the guy is a huge prick, but the shuttle comes and I have a “uh oh” moment as I realize that the smallest bill I have on me is $10, so the shuttle driver is getting a $10 tip for a 10 minute ride he does every day and doesn’t even have to help me with any bags or anything… but the guy does me a solid and talks on his cell phone in Spanish the whole time so I end up not having to tip him anything. (I exaggerated a little – it wasn’t the whole time. At one point his call failed so he had to re-dial the other person…)

As I walk in I see Baroni and ask “I’m an asshat?!?!?!” (he posted something on the forums about using these things called “proxies” or something???), and he gets me worried it’s the wrong place because the hotel clerk didn’t know about Star Wars, but when I check in it’s a different clerk whose awful boobs are hanging out and she knew about Star Wars and we’re in the right place. When I check into the room the radio was already blasting some J-Lo song so I can’t decide if that’s a good sign or bad sign (j/k – no matter where I go, I know where I came from). I then crash for an hour or so and when I get up I deconstruct my decks and organize them because it helps me understand them more. Baroni messages me for some games so I meet him down stairs and I think we end up playing three or four play test games and my Court decks beats him every time. He tried the RST deck and it beats TTO, but it seemed like that was it. One of my roommates (Brian) arrived as did Goose, so they were playing some games too. He also told me he walked to some place called the Poon County Saloon or something and it sounded horribad, so I think we were both up for getting some food. Nick and Thomas and others show up, so we all go out for some food and end up at alike a Jumbalya Jakes (I don’t think that was the name – I could check my credit card to find it out, but that’s not necessary to understand the story since Jumbalaya Jakes sums up the place really well). I ask what is Texas-y their to eat and I ask the lady and she asked if would recommend the Shrimp Poboy or the Crab Cake sandwich. She looks at me like “Child, it all tastes the same” and pretends to be enthusatic about the poboy, so that’s what I get. I think it was good, but don’t remember. As we walk by though we see the Poon County saloon and there’s both a large chuck wagon and a giant missile outside of it so I completely envision it being as bad as Steve said. We then head back to the hotel/tournament venue and by then others have arrived, including Robbie (my other roommate and team tournament teammate). We get settled in the room a bit and get decks settled. I didn’t feel like playing TTO in a team tournament and I’m saving the Court deck for tomorrow, so I stick with the Scum deck that’d tested well earlier.

FRIDAY NIGHT TEAM TOURNAMENT:  
So Robbie was cool enough to team with me at Worlds because my usual teammate couldn’t make it at the last minute. I remember meeting him at the MPC but Worlds I hung with him a bit more and he’s definitely good people. Definitely impressed with his ability to travel so much just to run events rather than play in them. Definitely dedicated to the game and a huge asset. Plus, he doesn’t care about the foil slips like I do, so it completely works. This time though we’re probably both a bit better prepared than we were at worlds. I’m going with Scum and he’s going with his Senate (I’ll let him talk about it if he wants but I think I really like it. It’s one of those solid decks that makes you wonder how he fit it into 60 cards – cool stuff going on in it).

GAME 1: vs Baroni playing RST  
We both laugh because we played this match up already today and it didn’t turn out well for the RST deck. (I want it to be clear, I’m not saying I’m a better play than Steve at all – but all day during play testing, my decks won, so it is very match up dependent, and this particular match up favored me.) The game went normally, I get some ping damage in, set up a bit in space. The key moment in the game is I  
beat down Home One for 12 overflow with lateral damage. I then own space and am draining for 3 at systems and one at AC. Eventually I also do a smaller beat down on some scouts with Elis. Towards the end he nabruns a large crew to AC as a last ditch effort and Jedi presences them for crazy power but I get 2 destiny and somehow drew well with Scum, so with their forfeits being boosted I think I only take 2 overflow and then drain him out.

Robbie lost to Mike’s Scum (no shame in that – Mike dominated with that deck all weekend), so we are 1-1 with positive differential.

GAME 2: vs TacoBill playing WYS  
I think I go to AC with some evasion early and he goes to Cantina with LSJK. We set up here and there and I beat down Captain Han/Falcon with Zuckuss in Mist Hunter + Maul’s ship with an ORS (seriously, that combo deploys for TWO FORCE!). We cat and mouse a bit in space, he gets Kessel I think I let a few of those drains go thru while I drain at Tatooine. Ground game gets going I know Xizor owns some punks who don’t have high enough ability. I try to get a game-ending Ellis beat down in and draw a 6, which hurts my ability to drop more people, but oh well, gotta do it. So I pay it and then he cancels it – ARGH! I No Escape it back into hand and draw a 5 (SERIOUSLY? Scum has such low destiny and here I am drawing high for something I don’t want to – back to back…). So after paying 11 for an Elis, I don’t have much left to cause overflow on some scrubs, and it ends up being kind of a wasted turn, but at least I clear his guys. Eventually I pull it out, and I’m kind of impressed about how strong the space can be in this deck.

Robbie lost to Greg’s Scum (at one point I look over and see Boba Fett, Bounty Hunter [whose maintenance cost is canceled…] and another bounty hunter in the senate with Palpatine and Mon Mothma being escorted captives and I realized it was bad…), so we are 2-2 and still with good differential.

GAME 3: vs James Barnes’s Old Allies  
I set up on Tatooine and I think he dropped both drain 2 sites so I take one of those. I also think I beat up Rey or someone (maybe it wasn’t Rey?). The ping damage really adds up, he goes to Tatooine late I think with EPP Chewie but it’s kind of late. I load up in space and park in front of his fully loaded Falcon. I do the dumb thing and battle and he plays a bagillion destiny adders (fortunately I have Woooof to help mitigate some of them) and we each draw 4 battle destinies, and then we do it again and I whittle each other down, but I remember I I was able to take Jakku (maybe he moved to Nal Hutta?). James set up super strong at the 2/2 but I have the other drain 2, I think also Rey’s site and the Audience Chamber + ping plus a system drain and eek it out (once his stuff is set up he really mitigates damage though!). I think time was called because I remember retrieving a ship with Something Special Planned to help differential?

Robbie won his game versus Nick (I don’t remember what Nick was playing), so we are top seed and Greg/Bill are #2. There’s basically no way we’re playing again so we split the cash and we take the glass cowboy boot trophy. Oh wait, that didn’t actually happen because evidently there is no cool ass team tournament trophy for TMW! [angry face]

Speaking of prizes, we open the prize kit and see all the cool foils plus some really amazing Met Life promos that I’m really hoping to play well enough to win. Top 8 got Kylo foils, so that’s my goal, but if I have to settle for the insurance pamphlet, at least I can bring something back home, right?

We’re all hungry. I think some ordered Chinese, but Steve, Robbie and I head to the Wal*Marts to get some supplies for the weekend (cherry pop tarts were the best investment I made – such an easy thing to eat between rounds. And cherry is a fruit, so it’s basically like I’m on a diet when I eat them). We then get Little Cesar’s hot and ready. But we have to wait on line for like 15 minutes behind someone either because they ordered something absurd or because their order was not hot or ready. At one point I try to see if the store portion is open to get them from there versus the drive thru, but the employees see me and panic, shaking their head in disapproval and running their hands across their necks, signaling either the store portion is closed or if I enter they will slit my throat. Under either scenario, I assume going back to the car and waiting is the better choice. We eat back at the venue, talk some cards and then get ready for the main event.

SPOILER  
Oh yeah, if you made it this far, now might be a good time for a spoiler. Here’s my card for Set 5.  
•Leia Of Alderaan (V)  
[Set 5 &#8211; Cloud City &#8211; R]  
EFFECT  
Text: Deploy on a Rebel leader. Opponent may not cancel or reduce Force drains at same battleground. If on Leia, she is a general, power +2, and, once per turn, may cancel the immunity to attrition of a character (or game text of a [Jabba&#8217;s Palace] alien) here for remainder of turn.  
Set 5

I wanted it to be a Leia/Profit helper (since that’s the part of the movie the picture is from), and at one point it was slated to be considered for Set 4 as a card that stopped Or Be Destroyed from flipping if non-[Ref III] Leia was also at a battleground. It was cool to have a way for Profit to not totally be shut down, but I ended up pulling it during testing because there was A LOT to be considered for that set and I felt like it wasn’t all that interesting. Wait, sorry, getting distracted. I can talk about that stuff later, back to the TMW report…

MAIN EVENT  
Oh yeah, before I get started with this I wanted to say Evan did a GREAT job all weekend running this thing. Pairings were quick, updates/analysis was given and everything was smooth and timely.

I channel my inner Tom Haid and wear a Rebel Flight Suit t-shirt (figuring if his whole suit won him worlds, my t-shirt would win me mini-worlds). Someone is missing a Strike Planning, so I help him find one that was left on top of the printer in the hotel lobby business center. Steve comes in and we continue our banter and rivalry and I tell him I’m gunning for him. Oh, and then there pairings are announced:

GAME 1: vs Baroni&#8217;s First Order Court  
Great – so the very first round I’m matched up against Steve. I knew our play test games weren’t going to be a true indication of his skill or game play, so this was going to be a challenge. The only things I had going for me were that (1) Steve is a cool/funny guy. All of our games were interactive and a lot of fun and he’s definitely a good guy to play against, joking around in-game. And (2) I know my TRM deck pretty well which should give me a chance. We both eat Court damage on our first turn and then I drop Qui-Gon to empty Audience Chamber. He comes back with 2 troopers + General Hux and uses FN-2003 out of battle to shut down Qui-Gon (honestly, I HATE that guy. He absolutely should either be (1) place him OOP to do his trick OR he should let himself be hit to either cancel a character’s text OR stop them form firing weapons. The fact that he does both and can be recycled over and over again with Carida is completely stupid. He shuts down Mace, Jedi Luke, etc. HE’S A LOUSY 1 DEPLOY TROOPER! END THE MADNESS!). He battles and misses Qui-Gon with the gun but uses blast points. I draw a 5 for battle destiny so Qui-Gon covers. He loses the 2 troopers (including the guy with the gun – wahoo!) and keeps hux, moving him to the Dungeon and leaving no Force. I check my deck with Insurrection and see I have 2 spies in Force pile, so I play my tunnel vision and grab Jar Jar. Drop him to dungeon, followed by Jedi Luke + saber and captain Yutanni and overflow Hux for 17. He plays Mara + gun to AC. I drop Phylo to Home One docking bay for free and move her to his coruscant DB (also free) and move jar jar/Jedi Luke/yutanni to the AC and he concedes.

Whew. I lucked out and got an early beat down in. But beating a player as good as Steve in a game that mattered was pretty cool.

GAME 2: vs TacoBill’s TRM  
Shuffling up and setting up I look at his TRM and it’s got a Christmas theme to it (I love the custom art work on this stuff by the way), so we joke about that. Then, as I draw my opening hand, it’s all red and some green – let the Christmas theme continue. He drops Mace to Audience Chamber. One of my red was Strategic Reserves and then draw for trooper to cancel but after drawing it all, I only have 1. I take a bunch of ping damage, constantly drawing to get troopers to cancel his AC drain and eventually I get some characters/guns set up (go to space too) and do some ping and drain at the JCC. He A Gifts 3PO but I Blasted Droid him (just like in the mooooovies!). We do some battles- he twice used Blaster Deflection lost to get my trooper to hit himself. I had 2 untracked 5s in my low Reserve that if they hit Luke or Mace it would would have gotten him off Tatooine, but they didn’t hit. Not sure it still would have mattered too much, it depends what he had to come back at me with, so I&#8217;m guessing even if I did clear, he squeezes it out if he has a character in hand. Kylo did 2 damage for me one battle and then caused two next turn (stupid drama queen!). He grabbed my barrier early- which stunk because my opening hand was filled with them.

Drats. I figured after not getting a character it would go poorly, and him dropping Mace early stunk. Still happy I made it a game after such a bad start. Plus, Bill is a real good player, so no shame in losing to him.

GAME 3: vs TacoBill’s TTO  
Seriously? My first 3 games are against Baroni and Kaffer? Blah. My opening hand was not great activation-wise, but I had a spy plus Anakin so I was hoping he went to bunker. I see that the JCC is in force pile so I spend my first turn drawing for it. His turn he also draws. I play JCC and see that Phylo and all my Jedi Lukes are in my Reserve deck, so I use the JCC text to play Yoda who grabs tunnel for me. Again his turn draws (maybe puts moff out in space?). I see phylo is still in my Reserve Deck, but a Luke is in my force pile while his saber + proficiency are in my reserve so I tunnel Luke and use Wokling/Luke effect to get him out draining for 4 at the battle plains. I also play Solo to my Home One DB so that I can tunnel as soon as phylo hits my Force pile. His turn he gets 2 sectors out my turn phylo is in force so I tunnel for her, set up her + EPP Chewie + Solo at endor docking bay. I get in a few turns of me draining for 4 + 3, he gets resistance in effect by dropping EPP Maul+his ship at the Endor docking bay. I still pay to drain for 2 then play Anakin and beat the beejeebies out of maul who clears phylo and Chewie. (I have obi in hand so I&#8217;m okay just getting phylo back next turn). Then he spreads to get his damage rolling to TTO at naboo and drain there and endor. And despite playing 3, never found the TTO suspender. I just kept paying to drain (4 at battle plains and 3 at docking bay), Next turn he plays Tarkin to docking bay and lands Baron with ship there too to get free drains of 2/2 and TTO of 2 and resistance in effect. I drop Qui-Gon, Yutanni and Jar Jar. All my destiny > 3, so I shoot Baron with Yutanni, chop Tarkin with Qui-Gon and then Sorry About The Mess him, and overflow a lone Baron (whose ship only covers 4) for 18.

2-1. Happy to survive my first three match ups with a winning record.

GAME 4: vs Michael Richards’s Watch Your Step  
Before this game, Mike was cool enough to order some barbeque for us all, so that was definitely awesome and something I was looking forward (#imafatkid). I don’t think I’ve played him since an MPC years ago, but we’ve managed to run into each other at events so it’ll be good to play him again. I don’t remember too many details of the game. I got some ping with the effect but I think Jedi Luke was on Tatooine all game basically. I know at one point I used Stunning Leader to turn what would have been a Jedi Luke/2 smuggler beat down for him into a troopers versus Theron beat down, but he had the Houjix. The gun/Blasted Droid are insane and I had presence on the ground all game for the ping damage and my space was surviving well enough. I had resistance and Strategic Reserves to deal with his big drains and I think I had a Zuckuss parked in front of one of his lesser ships (???). I was cycling FN-2003 with Carida to clear Luke (again, see above. And I’m sorry Mike for doing that – it did feel wrong). I also got some damage in with P-59 hitting a weenie smuggler or two. Time was called and I definitely had board control and lots of different sources of damage set up and he had burned many of his tricks (a lot of the tricksy interrupts were stacked on Gesture). We were tied on life force and I groan because I assume Step would win the lost pile count because all of its stuff is OOP, but somehow it doesn’t. I squeaked by and eeeked one out in a close, tight game.

3-1. But more importantly, I get to shove some of the food down my gullet before the next round!

GAME 5: vs Greg Shaw’s Court Scum  
I’ve played this match up a bunch and I feel like Greg has too. I drop to the AC early and often. Qui-gon, Leia, Rebel Princess and Jedi Luke with Lightsaber Proficiency are stacked there. He eats some drains and ping damage and builds his hand so I try to do the same but obviously between paying for drains and (necessarily, in my mind) reinforcing, I’m not able to draw all that much. He dropped Dr E and EPP Dengar in front of them and draws more. I try to be smart and I Sorry About The Mess EPP Dengar as my first control phase action before draining, but he has canceler (and I don&#8217;t have the canceler to the canceler) so Qui-Gon gets disarmed and operated upon. I drain for 4, put EPP Chewie at the pit and move away (I didn&#8217;t want to risk stunning leader, Leia means he can’t drain and it’s only one less damage at the Pit but I don’t have to worry about Dr E/Dengar + more coming after me). His turn he drops EPP Mara, Boba Fett, BH and P-60. He misses completely on a hidden weapons on Luke (WHERE IS MY CANCELER!?) but hits Leia. Luke and Chewie hit people, his site cleared I keep Luke. My turn I Wokling back Leia, drain for 3, back Luke up with Solo and Rey and use her to take Leia into hand from Used Pile. At some point I lost a Hear Me Baby so that&#8217;s part of reason why I dropped the solo as well (maybe to the p-60 shot?). I drain as he builds his hand. He drops Scum, I Alter it right away. I get a dodge and a houjix so I go Yoda to battle plains, and phylo to home one DB to move her to Coruscant db. He answers with Cad and Djas vs Yoda and Xizor versus phylo. He doesn’t have enough Force to drop another character, so I alter his second Scum with Alter from Lost Pile (was trying to save Solo for Hear Me before that). Cad and Yoda die in battle (Cad cancels Yoda’s immunity) and Djas stays at the Battle Plains. Phylo dodges away from Xizor to the JCC (unfortunately she cannot move away using docking bay text to move to his other DB…) and Xizor follows. I drop Obi-Wan against Djas, he barriers him, but I sense it. I drew You Do Have Your Moments for the Sense destiny, so I make that one of the 2 that I lose to There Is No Try, use Rey to get an extra card in hand to swap for the YDHYM with Obi-wan’s text, thinking if he draws a 5 I can make him re-draw it to keep obi alive. He doesn&#8217;t draw a 5 so djas is cleared, Obi stays. He drops Ponda Baba and Wooof to the Battle Plains to fight Obi, leaving two cards in Reserve Deck. Ponda adds a destiny to attrition but I use the YDHYM to make him redraw his battle destiny so he concedes. Ever since early turns was draining for 4 or 3 without Scum retrieval it was rough in Greg.

4-1. I felt bad about altering his Scum twice but that&#8217;s what those filthy gangsters get. Wretched hive.

GAME 6: vs Greg Shaw’s WYS  
AGAIN?!?!? Jeez, I was hoping to squeak by without facing Greg again because I know I’m not beating him twice, but no such luck. We both just draw a lot early – me afraid of getting LSJK dropped on me, and I imagine him afraid of a trooper beat being dropped. I get Hux (and hide him at the prison) to get me Strategic Reserves to buy me time. He sets up a bit in space and then goes Jedi Luke to cantina, but I drop some troopers there andFN-stupidguy gets him (again, I hate that guy, so my apologies Greg) and he actually flips back. Luke comes back down to the Cantina for revenge and hits/Sorry About The Messes Phasma, which wrecks me. I don’t think he overflowed me (or maybe I had a Ghhhk?), but him clearing me out of troopers and off the big site set me back a lot. I get a few pings in and get space to carida for free drains and then he spreads in space. Even with strategic reserves he&#8217;s draining for 2 at 2 locations and then at Tatooine too. Eventually he gets all of his Interrupts and Jedi Luke does Jedi Luke-ish things and Messes people and Runs Luke&#8217;s Runs and then Messes people. I drop Mara to Boss Nass’s Chamber for some damage when he is at about 15 to my 11 but he kills me by battling P-59 with melas and a Luke who Ran Luke Ran, which essentially ends it.

4-2. I had a nice run and beat some good players, but it wasn’t going to stay that way. Greg just took advantage of every hole I left open and played really well.

GAME 7: vs Barnes’s RST  
Bad match up for me (wish I played Scum!!!), so I feel I need him to mess something up to win. Also, we are both at 4 wins, and it’s pretty safe that 5 wins will get you to Top 8, so we both want to win this game. We’re both activating a lot and sticking to our own planets, but I bait him into putting home one away from endor by leaving a lone ship at Carida. I was hoping to draw into a barrier since there were some in my Force pile, but I miss it. He does drop the Home One and I take some overflow, but I’m good with the trade since I then retrieve boba and sent him to endor (might have backed up with Elis in ship too to drain for 2 there?). He stacks at bunker while I do ping. I don’t want to eat the 8 damage, so I drop troopers and guns at the Bunker, while holding a barrier and Stunning Leader. He says either I have something or not and over deploys, which I’m glad to see. I actually barrier one of his guys just to bait him into thinking I don’t have the evasion to get him to drop more. He does and battles, so I stunning Leader and I actually am pretty amped because it will now be a beatdown FOR me as Cracken is still staying in the battle. Buuuuuuuut then cancels my stunning leader (whooooops) and doesn&#8217;t let me fire weapons so no blast points either (whooooops), so what was going to be beating up cracken to win a bad match up, turned into 16 overflow for me. Game basically over. I am doing 5 damage a turn though and he is only doing 1 or 0 (canceling his drain with strategic and ghhhking at the bunker so he can&#8217;t flip now that I finally found them), but he bionic hands back on the edge and retrieves a bunch and my ghhhks are exhausted so that&#8217;s game.

4-3. Even after the 16 overflow from the beatsquad I felt like I could have pulled it out, however James did awesome in using Bionic Hand and Edge to make sure that never happened. Well played by him.

GAME 8 vs Jeremy&#8217;s TTO  
I think I got paired up and Jeremy is maybe the 2 or 3 seed at this point with Mike Kessling 6-1 maybe? So I’m less than thrilled that after starting 4-1, I might not get that 5th win to definitely top 8. I draw no activation but I do get a few characters. Insurrection search shows I have a speak and a wesa in my Force pile so I draw for those. He gets Jerrjerrod on Black 2 and the Endor shield up and running so I gotta get moving. No immediate way to get phylo so I have to skip that plan. I probably messed up in getting the BNC instead of the Battle Plains but I drop Luke + saber + proficiency to docking bay. He drops sectors and bossk/ship and moves the Moff over to Endor. He cancels my drain of 3 with Tarkin’s orders which I&#8217;m not totally unhappy about because it lets me grab it ASAP. I activate a bunch see Yoda + tunnel in my Reserve deck so I get that. He gets TTO on his turn, so I drop qui-Gon to battle plains and feel safe at both sites because I’m holding a Clash. I also get the TTO suspender. So he doesn&#8217;t do any damage (his stuff is parked at naboo) but drops U3PO in front of Luke. I&#8217;m activating a bunch so tunnel, get Rey, drain at battle plains drop corran to Luke&#8217;s site, Han and Rey at plains with qui-gon, get something with her (huge used pile) (maybe another TTO canceler?) and 3PO into phylo so drop her and Corran breaks U3PO’s cover. I&#8217;m draining for 5 and 2. He grabs a ghhhk drops Maul and tries to hit Luke twice but I have Dodge and Deflection to keep him alive and Force him to use his ghhhk. He draws a 6 so I lose corran and his stolen U3PO (hahaha!) I think I play suspender again, at some point it was grabbed. I&#8217;m ready to go to space next turn. He plays Maul again to clear Luke but I Impressive, Most Impressive and then hit and Mess him. He calls game. He heavy drains and then him burning his turns on Maul hurt.

So I do end up making Day 2 (wahoo!) and earning that sweet Kylo foil (although no Met Life pamphlet – boo!). We all go out to a Mexican restaurant. The menu seems pricey, I get the nachoes thinking they’re somewhat affordable and I can fill up on the free chips. But holy moly, these nachoes were AMAZING. AMAZING. And it was such a heaping of deliciousness. Very impressive. Definitely the meal of the event. I’m actually craving them right now, just typing this. Mmmmmm….

Back to the hotel we go and I talk things over with Brian and Robbie (thanks again guys!!!) and I decide Day 2 decks will definitely be my TRM again, just swap in an Edge since it’s match play. For DS it’s either TTO or Court Scum because I’m not playing that stupid Court Trooper deck again. TTO seems solid and is likely to win, but Court Scum just has the potential to win by so much or even stay alive and keep the game close, and since it won every game I played with it over the weekend, that’s what I’m gonna go with. I make some swaps but nothing crazy. Robbie talks me into using Dengar in Punishing One in Scum. At first I’m skeptical because I feel EPP Dengar is needed in that deck, but I’m eventually convinced, just is knowing how bad he can hurt Home One and deploys from deck. So we decide on those decks and tweaks and I specifically said going to bed that night, no matter what happens, I’m good with my deck choices. And, even writing this, I still am.

DAY 2

Okay, let me start by saying that the hotel had a free breakfast. And it was actually pretty good. But like most hotel breakfasts, they have make-your-own-waffles, but you can never actually do it since those machines are always freakin occupied. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today is a good day. I got up early and got myself a waffle. (I think Steve, Goose, and I were always up early each day? I feel that my body won’t let me sleep late anymore…). Oh and not just anyway waffle – but this one was Texas-shaped. AMAZING.

Anyway, so I’m playing Nick round one. He is higher seed and calls light.

GAME 1: Nick’s TRM (Brian Fred style)  
Ugh. So TRM is not a good match up for me, but it’s totally winnable-ish. But seeing Sai torr and LMFBM basically means lightsabers are friggin’ coming. So as soon as I see starting cards I know that my goal is probably going to be to keep it close and then try to win. Buuuuuuut then I see that my opening hand is 4 space cards. Blah. So against a fast deck, I definitely will have a slow start. Well, his first turn he drops  
Anakin (with saber) to the Audience Chamber. His 2nd turn? Luke Jedi (with saber) to the AC. So after I&#8217;ve peeled 8 (EIGHT!) to drains and my objective, I’ve built up my hand to where I can came back at Anakin/Luke with 4LOM, Cad and BFBH. Probably my best chance of clearing and re-setting the board, to be honest &#8211; everyone&#8217;s immunity canceled for him and I am drawing 3 battle destiny. BUUUUUT I draw crap mccrap for destiny (including a 0…) so Anakin covers the less than 8 attrition I did, and from there it was just trying to keep differential low.

And didn&#8217;t do that either btw. He reinforces AC with another Jedi+saber, I’ve already burned my big drop, I’m peeling to my own card not to mention 4 to a drain I can never actually contest, so I try to set up and drain in space and do weird stuff on the ground just to get rid of the ping damage and use Ghhhk to block the drain but there comes a point when he has enough cards in his hand that it will cover whatever damage I can do before he kills me so I battle and don’t ghhhk so that he can’t put any of them back. Brutal. I think the only thing that went right for me was in one battle where I was just trying to get rid of any guy with a saber he Clashed me, so that guy was there to block a drain and save me objective damage. I loss by 31, which is going to be match, but I came all this way to play cards, so I play the second game anway.

0-1 (-31). First turn Anakin + saber and 2nd turn Luke + saber is rough. But whatever TRM vs Scum does  
that. And Nick played it good. And, again, I’m still very okay with my deck choices. Obviously TTO would have been a better shot to win and it DEFINITELY would have been closer. But I liked the Scum deck, put all that thought into building it and it had been good for me all weekend except for that one game.

GAME 2: vs Nick’s First Order Court  
This match up probably favors me, but FO Court can definitely win if the cards are there for me and not for me. He got Hux + Strategic Reserves out pretty quickly and then hid Hux at the dungeon to buy him time. My Reserve Deck checks show that I can’t get an Alter or Phylo quickly, so I just try to draw to do what Throne Room do… I get a Corran + LSJK beat on yorr at dungeon. A few battles back and forth from there, he avoids me at some sites while Luke drains. I couldn’t get a strong foothold on a second battleground for the Phylo drain to matter until late. I Altered Strategic Reserves too, btw. I’m in decent control of the game but 31 is a lot of cards. I play a bit funky and once he’s shield busted (with no Secret Plans), I am able to do consecutive Edges for a total of 10, but (again) 31 is a lot and by this time he has solid drain set up in space and I think has an okay set up at one site (nothing I can’t break through, but it’s still time). So I win by 25, but lose the match.

1-1 (-6). Nick played great and was total gentleman for someone who ROLLED me. Good games, Nick.

So I’m out of Day 2, but hey, if I’m flying to Texas, let’s. Evan is cool and lets me hop in the Consolation, just giving me a bye for the game I just missed.

CONSOLATION:

ROUND 2: vs Mike Richards’s Bespin Mains  
I think I get activation out somewhat early, He drops some CC sites empty. I drop Qui-gon and yutanni to separate cloud city sites before he controls Bespin and makes my guys pricey. He drops blizzard 4 (which pulls Vader) and then drops Ozzel to Vader’s site. I tell Mike not to do that because I’m going to make Ozzel immediately lost. He then drops Grievous to Yutanni’s site and battles there. I frown a bit, play Dodge and react Yutanni over to Ozzel’s site, which kills Ozzel and just say “Don’t say I didn’t warn you.” I don’t remember if Greivous moved over to that site or if Vader just got out of Blizzard 4. But either way, next turn LSJK and Hera cleared the site and draw out his ghhhk. I was holding Houjix, so I dropped Yoda to the Battle Plains. I’m draining for a bunch at the Battle Plains and all over Cloud City (Luke’s saber + a 2 drain site). He drops EPP Maul and Marek Steele to the Battle Plains. Yoda survives Maul’s first swing thanks to a Wesa and then Blaster Deflects the second. He drew really low. I drew a 4 for battle destiny but use You Do Have Your Moments to ensure Maul will be lost, so he just clears his side of the site and I took about 3 overflow to keep Yoda there. After that there were some small battles on CC with EPP Maul and EPP Chewie/Han, but my steady drains do him in.

2-0. Mike’s always fun to play. Had a good banter during the game and the Ozzel thing was one of the funnier things I’ve had happen in a while.

ROUND 3: vs TacoBill’s TTO  
I get activation set up but this was typical race game. There were a few battles i won and he had ghhhk when needed. At one point I probably over deployed when I was stacked at a site solely because I wanted to ensure Phylo was in my Used Pile when I Reyed. But I probably should have just trusted I&#8217;d win any ground battles and gotten Phylo with the Tunnel. His TTO for 3 and then drains at Endor and Naboo out race me when he is satisfying resistance during my control phase by landing stuff with ghhhk or lots of forfeit. One battle I Messed away Maul because I assumed he had another EPP Maul and I didn’t want him whittling my forces down and then coming back at me, but probably should have drawn the ghhhk out instead. This mattered because he did have another Maul and I again beat him badly and he still had the Ghhhk to use this time. I actually played three TTO damage cancelers and still lost the damage race (just goes to show you how un-good that card really is…). Drats.

2-1. Something I like about this game is how we just played this match up the day before but with the opposite result. Was a good game. Oh yeah, I forgot, there were tricks with me dropping spies to Bunker to get the extra activation at Endor and breaking undercover spy’s cover and stuff.

ROUND 4: vs Jonathan Bauer’s Yavin IV CPv  
Oh yeah, so for the consolation, I finally busted out the TTO, so this was the only game I played with it all weekend. I got sectors by 2nd turn but TTO was activated. I got both of my systems out quickly and parked a few ships at Tatooine and moved Death Star there. He battled with lando+Luke on Falcon for two destiny but drew low and I drew two high destiny, so I clear both pilots and he caused me to lose only jerjerrod. He moved dash+Rey in Outrider over to fight me. I get some damage in and reinforce with Elis in Hinthra and Bossk in Hound’s Tooth. I battle, clear the empty Falcon + Rey and I lose Wooof. I move Elis over to Endor for more damage. He dropped Harc in Overseer there and battles, but I use decree to draw a battle destiny and get a 5, clearing harc and he concedes.

3-1. Nice to meet Jonathan who ended up winning the whole event at 3-1 as well – CONGRATS TO HIM!

We then went out and watched the Cowboys/Eagles game. Was nice to catch up with people in actual people terms, not necessarily Star Wars CCG aspect of their life. Good chats with Kessling and life and jobs and stuff, same deal with Mike and Brian, and everyone else I haven’t yet mentioned (sorry, getting tired of typing – I’m at 12 pages… you guys already have the spoiler, why are you still reading?). Stories about pocket twizzlers, the waitress at the bar who in the middle of our order said “I can’t hear you” because the music was too loud and just left (we thought to tell them to turn the music down, buuuuuut she literally just left and came back later), the most delicious Texas BBQ burger ever, and everything else. Good times.

Quick props/slops:

PROPS:  
&#8211; Robbie. Good teammate, good roommate, good friend. Nice chat about everything from uncut sheets to Senate tech and everything in between. Little Cesars was definitely the right call. Thanks so much for an awesome weekend!  
&#8211; Brian. Nice to meet you/room with you. Appreciated the tech talk and hopefully will see you at the MPC!  
&#8211; Mike/Nick/Evan: everyone who ran/set up the event. You guys were awesome hosts and did a good job. Tournament ran smoothly and you all did a great job.  
&#8211; Thomas: first time meeting you, read a lot of funny stories on these boards so glad to meet you. You yelling “that’s racist” when you were assigned dark was HILARIOUS!  
&#8211; Steve: Congratulations! Super impressive to start the weekend 0-whatever and then just run the table. Funniest moment of the weekend was running into you at the hotel “You think \*I\* am an asshat?” Thank you for play testing on Friday, had a lot of good games with you, looking forward to seeing you at the MPC. Oh yeah, you left your Hunt Down objective behind, and I was going to ask you to sign it for me.  
&#8211; Tom K and Stephen C.: thank you so much for testing with me and explaining the decks to me. All the tech and help was appreciated (and useful!). I wouldn’t mind driving down there every now and then for a few more games. Also, that pizza was pretty good.  
&#8211; Goose: good talking to you at breakfast when most others were sleeping. Loved the AIs!!!!  
&#8211; Bill/Greg: Playing you both back to back was rough. Always good to see you and glad you could also make the trip. Can’t wait until the MPC. Also, don’t forget Robbie and I were the #1 seed and beat you head to head in the team tournament!  
&#8211; Kessling: such an impressive performance at cards and good talking to you throughout the weekend. Hadn’t played you before worlds, but looking forward to some more games and events!  
&#8211; Jarad: the testing and all that has definitely improved my game.  
&#8211; Hotel: the breakfast bar was nice and the texas-shaped waffle was amazing. But (most importantly) having 24/7 access to free coffee is a sheer delight.  
&#8211; Ozzel: you are as clumsy as you are stupid. Loved it.  
&#8211; Luke Jedi: you&#8217;re the real MVP (actually, it might have been Phylo)  
&#8211; All my opponents: you guys were all classy and helped make the trip fun. I sincerely mean that

SLOPS:  
&#8211; Me. True story, on Day 2 I didn’t really change my shields that much for DS, so I was running the Battle Order shield in a deck that started Battle Order. Smooth move, ex-lax. I deserved to lose that game!!! Although (true story and names removed to protect the innocent), one WYS player was packing Keep Your Eyes Open and at least one Diplo player was running the A Gift + R2-D2 & C-3PO combo (which seems like a really, really good scum counter, no???).  
&#8211; The guy at the hotel was a prick about the shuttle. I guess Steve has the same experience with him over the shuttle too.  
&#8211; The lady at the hotel who put me on the “Wake up Call for 6 AM” list rather than the “Shuttle to airport for 6 AM list” and the other lady who didn’t believe me (“M’am, I promise you I’m not lying about the woman at the lobby writing my name down on one of those pieces of paper”)  
&#8211; Deck boxes for looking like explosives: I got stopped on the way back as well to have my card box opened up and examined. This time they used I guess bomb-detecting paper instead of the ionizer. Right away the security guy going thru my bag said “You have Magic cards or something?” So I indignantly said, “Of course not, that sounds nerdy… they’re Star Wars cards… and they just happen to be in a Lord of the Rings card box.”  
&#8211; FN-2003: you&#8217;re such a scumbag. 1 deploy to completely neutralize a big character, I hope you hit yourself super hard  
&#8211; Me for forgetting more props I’m sure (and I reserve the right to edit this post to add them)  
&#8211; You for reading this whole thing  
&#8211; Leia Of Alderaan (V) for not being an effect you deploy on table that makes Daughter Of Skywalker deploy = 4 that \/’s Anakin’s Lightsaber. Drats!!!!