---
id: 10263
title: 'Josh Mack &#8211; Match Play Championship &#8211; 1/6/17-1/8/17 &#8211; Princeton, NJ'
date: 2017-01-11T07:24:24+00:00
author: pwsadmin
layout: swccgpc
guid: http://www.starwarsccg.org/?p=10263
permalink: /josh-mack-match-play-championship-1617-1817-princeton-nj/
bre_add_to_home_carousel:
  - ""
bre_carousel_title:
  - ""
bre_carousel_link:
  - ""
bre_carousel_external_link:
  - ""
bre_carousel_slogan:
  - ""
categories:
  - Tournament Reports
---
**Josh Mack (Remaker)  
** 

**Match Play Championship &#8211; 1/6/17-1/8/17 &#8211; Princeton, NJ  
** 

**Throne Room Mains / Imperial Entanglements  
** 

**Virtual Set 5 Meta**

**Forum Link: http://www.starwarsccg.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=966&t=64034  
** 

Lets do a tourney report… I didn’t proofread this or spell check it.

Leading up to this event I hadn’t really touched my cards since the last MPC. With me moving to Florida I just wasn’t able to make the trip up for worlds and there isn’t anyone around me that plays. I gotta admit throughout the past year my interest in the game was pretty low and the new v-cards weren’t really doing much for me, but I do love the game so I knew I’d be going to the MPC again.

Prepping for the event I looked at my old decks that I had built… basic things like wys, step luke, trm, hd, etc… not too much would really change with this by including some of the new cards so I did a bit of self testing for a few weeks. Step luke was gonna be my deck of choice coming into the event but I was really worried about the BHBM matchup and it seemed like maybe 25% win rate, so that deck was scrapped.

For dark… I had a good idea that Chris would peg me on dark mains (which he did) so I wanted to avoid that if possible. IE was being tossed around and even though it has it’s flaws it seemed like a solid deck and I was sold on using it before even getting to Jersey. LS I was pretty lost on where to go after step luke for a solid deck. Reid suggested baronis profit from texas, saying and I quote “On 12/30/16, at 5:15 PM, R Smith wrote: > you will steamroll your * ass bracket”. After people in our area testing it the concensus seemed that it wasn’t the best choice, which basically leaves old faithful, TRM. The build centered around luke with no maces and 1 yoda 1 quiggy. I questioned not including more immunity mains but decided to just stick with the standard list we all ran with a couple different choices.

My journey to the event begin last Tuesday at 8:00 heading towards Pittsburgh to visit family for a few days. I ended up getting there Wednesday around 10 in the morning after stopping at a rest area for about 7 hours to take a nap. I spent a few days hanging out there and my brother was in town so it was a nice little trip. Friday we wanted to get out of Pittsburgh by 730 at the latest to get there for the 2:00 mystery event. We got a good bit of snow and driving around to pick up all of the other minions it took longer than anticipated and I decided to just drop from the event to focus on getting some chipotle and testing games. I succeeded in getting chipotle but played literally 0 real games between last MPC and this MPC… yikes. I just watched the rest of the crew test games and building my decks for the next day.

With everyone in our area asking for some random cards for their decks we learned that dan tortellini is an apparent spy for other groups by telling them what cards we needed, double yikes. I was joking around with everyone that I was play dark deal and rst, so I got a good laugh when chu was actually playing deal.

Day 1 comes around, and here I am as a 10 seed against 7 seeded chris Kelly. We faced off 2 years ago and he beat me so I wanted revenge. Not really, but that’s the storyline. He flips over dark side first and I see MKOS. In my head I’m like ok… just wait for him to commit some guys and then I’ll figure out what to do, but I knew I was gonna be saving the plains for a late game drain of 2. Literally our first like 3-4 turns we’re just staring at each other, drawing cards, playing non interactive things like locations and what not. Eventually I’m like screw this and go with LSJK and 2 other jabronis to jabbas palace. What happened next kind of shocked me… Chris deployed like 8 aliens between the AC and the lower passages. I was really expecting him to come at me with some kind of beats but he didn’t. My gameplan kind of changed to a more passive approach from here out where I would just attempt to keep draining for 3 (cancelled a lot) and then spread out as needed to end the game. We had a couple of battles but honestly nothing eventful as there were no blowouts either way. I eventually drop yoda + rey at the battle plains, get BIPS into space with I think Anakin, and have Leia RP and the desert heart. I’m set up to definitely get the win, but time is called and I have 11 cards left to his 13, so I’m down by 2 force heading into game 2. I feel like I played this game ok. So I needed to win game 2 by 3 force and felt confident I could do that with IE.

As a preface to game 2… Chris had told tortellini that he was playing whap. I was convinced it was subterfuege because he had to know that we were teammates. Also, as pointed out by Bradley “the franchise” eier… there is no way he would pay a couple hundred bucks for an LSJK effect and not play the card. Agreed.

So he is playing TRM against IE… uh-oh. This matchup was apparently favored for TRM which included to a few more tech inclusions in our lists, one of which including a 5th site that we didn’t see everyone else using. The general gameplan seemed to be something along the lines of start the game with emp (starting location still up in the air, but I used mos espa. This allows Anakin to come down turn 1 with saber if they have sai’tor, but if they play lsjk generally ur safe), pull ur exec db and a site, get piett to the db, pull battle dep, get him on an atst, shuttle up emperor. This gets you activating a decent amount turn 2 and then you can kind of go from there. I loaded up the db, got some sites, flipped, went back flipped etc. He had a luke with rey at my mos espa db and I just let him sit there the whole game. He also had a Yoda at the battle plains sitting by himself. I had ground pretty locked down with walkers and at-sts at sites and he basically just had 1 site on each system. He was able to play we’re doomed combo 3 times (grabbed each time) to limit all but 1 turn of occupation damage, so that kinda sucked. One of my tech choices was to include always thinking with your stomach for the possible blowout. I could never use it against luke since there were others at the site, but yoda was a sitting duck. I’m 100% sure chris saw the card during a verify but didn’t pull the shield… yikes. So yoda did get stomached and his drains were basically chopped in 2. I get a win by around 15ish and advance to the next round.

I definitely felt good about the win and I think I was the only other person besides R from our team to make it to round 2. I had played angelo twice before…. Once at worlds in DC and some other event, with him beating me both times obviously. I felt like last year I made it to the top 16 so there was at least a chance that I could do it again.

Game 1: WHAP vs my IE. So this matchup I had never tested… whap isn’t really popular in our testing group w/o PMJ around. I start decree over mob points in the matchup to limit the ping, and kind of think of a gameplan. I was either going to stock up the devastator and spread on tatooine, or I was going to move the devastator around to block his drain and also spread on tatooine. I decide to just stick to tatooine. He gets step up with his usual crew on his sites and also had Anakin in his ship at naboo the whole game. That was like 5 force or so I’m taking every turn, ouch. On tatooine I had my walkers and dudes, I would flip, and he would inevitably flip me back. I would attempt to battle and get it’s a trap’d. Deploy a guy, barrier. It seemed like he had answers for a lot of my cards and I was definitely getting a bit salty, but it is what it is. Eventually he gets the win by 21 and I’m feeling basically like the match is over… but TRM being what it is there is always a chance to get a win.

Game 2:IE vs my TRM. So my plan this game was to try getting out Jennifer garner and a bunch of other dudes to his mos espa DB, set up a drain of 4, and then spread from there to block his drain, win battles, and keep him flipped. He goes with blizz 4 to the exec db and I think left em all there to start. I just draw, get out my sites, get out threepio, and build a hand while he is over there getting his forces ready. I go hard to the db with luke, phylo, and like 2-3 other characters to fortify the site, along with BiPS since I was like “hey im never gonna fight him in space.” He moves his whole crew of jabrons in front of me at the db, so I’m force to move away. I move a bunch of the crew left 1 site and take phylo and bips to the h1 db with the gameplan of sneaking them over to the exec to set up a drain of 3 that is just annoying to deal with. I am spread out on ground and doing sufficient enough considering he only plays 4 sites. Sidebar here on one of his sites… he was playing wattos hut. It seemed like a cool site, pulls watto, I get no bd, and it’s a 2-1. I was like man I’m not gonna deploy there all game in case I get barriered then counter beat. This thought went on for like 2-3 turns before I was like wow im’ retarded he can’t play watto. Ok back to the game… So I have Anakin deployed to the h1 db, shuttle him with phylo and bips to the exec, spread to 2 sites on tatooine, and have some solid drains set up for him to deal with. There are a few battles here and there, I drop a quiggy and battle with other guys to try clearing people, but with him having out battle deployment it’s basically impossible to really contest the sites w/o Chewbacca and/or a tracked destiny for captain yutani. He comes down with veers, piett, and someone else to fight my phylo Anakin party, but somehow I only end up losing Anakin and he is left with veers and piett to my lone phylo. I think to myself, this is my chance… If I’m going to have any chance of a win I have to blow him out right here and hope he doesn’t play the ghhhk. So I drop a 6 with threepio and have my destinies set up so that I will hit, hit, and draw a 6 so I’m looking at like 19 power to his (insert low #). I get leia set up at another site then I come down with quiggy, he’s good, come down with chewie, also good. I initiate battle and he plays cease fire. My hand starts twitching as he is losing 2 force… and I cancel it with hmbaby. He proceeds to say “ouch this is gonna hurt”, so either he’s bluffing hard or he just doesn’t have the ghhhk and is gonna get stomped. Long and short of the battle is that he has to take 13 overflow, I take quiggy into hand with AJR, lose chewie but wokling him back and then track him back into my hand. The game is super close at this point (I have exactly 21 in life force) where I’m draining for a sufficient amount and he is draining me for literally 0 and he actually can’t attempt to drain because leia would give me more force. He attempts to move his guys from his mos espa DB to my y4 and h1, which in hindsight I guess he couldn’t afford. He also takes all of of his chars off of the devastator before this so he has guys at those 2 dbs, devastator alone in space, and a bunch of guys at the desert heart staring at like 3 of my guys. I start getting the shakes again knowing what is going to unfold next. This turn is gonna make me a bit sick any time I think of it, but whatever. So I activate a bunch of force, pay 3 to drain at exec db for 3.. decide not to drain anywhere else for 2 (oops) and get ready for my deploy phase. I use obi wan v to snag bips out of my lost pile, throw it to tat, and then drop aboard the chewie that I had tracked back. I battle, draw w/e, and he loses devastator. At this point he has no where to drain because of simple tricks, I have battle order set up and am looking to end the game in 1-2 turns. So in that battle in space… I had a card stacked on evac control that I shoulda just drawn and then I could have placed it back with luke giving me 22 in life force. A few people are watching the game at this point… so Angelo starts his turn and activates all 11 and just thinks about the turn. A solid 10-15 minutes go by and I’m kinda like… we need to end this cuz if I get timed out and lose that would not really be cool. In the end we count life force, I still have 21, he’s like ok let’s just count lost piles. I’m up 3 on him at this point with nothing in hand to put back. He says he’s just gonna draw up and take the win. I attempt to use solo for an interrupt, not sure of what I have in my lost pile that could be used… nothing there. So all said and done he gets the win by 2 on lost piles from a tie match. Great games Angelo! I have never had a match that was so close. We each had our moments afterwards where one of us could have ensured victory, but me not draining when I had the force and not picking up the card on my last turn would have given it to me… oh well next year.

After this was the sealed, I’m paired against aglets and he gets LSJK. I’m playing as light side, but apparently I can’t even play with a proxy LSJK in my deck, so w/e he gets a new pack and of course DS rare. Cool. We play our game, I draw 3 bd’s during the game and they are all locations, so I drop because I just couldn’t even. I start having some beers, we play resistance. Everyone who gets Merlin is bad at it or doesn’t even know they have it, smh.

Sunday consolation is what it is… not gonna talk about that but fun games were had. The only outcome from that event is that the euro foils gotta go. I brought it up with Keith and I’ll let the advocates handle it, but I gotta mention it here just for transparency. I don’t care that you use them, I love the cards, they’re awesome. However, they are much firmer than other cards and it is unbelievably easy to track them around doing things like… activating force. I went thru Angelos deck and Skiltons deck and was able to blind grab all of the euro foils with 100% accuracy. I guess KTOD picked up on this strat and applied it this year at the MPC by making a bunch of their own foils(?) Just kidding.

Props:  
Scott advocate – great to see you spend a few nights and playing games with everyone… can’t say enough for what you do.  
Other advocates (past & present) that show up to events. It’s nice to see the leaders of our community at events interacting with people, especially new players that don’t know who they are.  
Shaw/gogolen/etc. for setting up a great event. You guys get a lot of * for seeding and what not, but there’s gonna be difficulties with it especially when teams like ours make up like 13% of the field.  
Bfred for being the hero and having my lost resistance card from the previous MPC. So hyped you still had this, but I noticed some white spots on the picture of reid.(???)  
Anyone who flew into the event… the MPC is the best event of the year.  
Non-tourney people that come to watch… this was the first time I noticed it but Robbie and booker making a trip just to be with the community is p cool  
Menzel/Angelo for being great opponents. I love playing games with you guys (if you woulda seen the slopfest of menzel and my game it was crazy, but so much fun)

Slops  
Dan for telling other teams what cards we need… yikes  
Me for snoring… I get * for it every year  
Driving back to florida… blew out a tire last night on the way home and had to get a hotel. Currently typing this as I wait for a new tire.

I think that’s about it… great event, great people, can’t wait to go to the next one.